30/08/2025 The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874

The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874
(ACT NO. IV OF 1874 )

2#An Act to control recruiting in Bangladesh for the service of Foreign States.

Preamble

WHEREAS it is expedient that the Government should exercise full control over recruiting in Bangladesh for the service of Foreign
States;It is enacted as follows:-

Short title 1. This Act may be called the Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874.
Local extent It extends to the whole of Bangladesh.
2. In this Act-

"Foreign State" includes any person or persons exercising or assuming to exercise the powers of

Government in or over any country, colony, province or people beyond the limits of Bangladesh.

Power to prohibit 3. If any person is, within the limits of Bangladesh, obtaining or attempting to obtain recruits for the
or permit

recruiting service of any Foreign State in any capacity, the Government may, by order in writing, either prohibit

such person from so doing, or permit him to do so subject to any conditions which the Government

thinks fit to impose.

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-31 .html 1/3

30/08/2025

Power to impose
conditions

Power to rescind
or vary orders

Offences

Place of trial

The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874

4. The Government may from time to time, by general order notified in the official Gazette, either
prohibit recruiting for the service or any Foreign State, or impose upon such recruiting any conditions

which it thinks fit.

5. The Government may rescind or vary any order made under this Act in such manner as it thinks fit.

6. Whoever, in violation of the prohibition of the Government, or of any condition subject to which

permission to recruit may have been accorded,-

(a) induces or attempts to induce any person to accept or agree to accept or to proceed to any place

with a view to obtaining any commission or employment in the service of any Foreign State, or

(b) knowingly aids in the engagement of any person so induced, by forwarding or conveying him or by

advancing money or in any other way whatever,

shall be liable to imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, or to fine to such amount

as the Court thinks fit, or to both.

7. Any offence against this Act may be inquired into and tried, as well in any district in which the person
accused may be found, as in any district in which it might be inquired into and tried under the

provisions of the *[Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898].

1 Throughout this Act, except otherwise provided, the words "Bangladesh" and "Government" were substituted, for the words "Pakistan" and "Central Government"

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-31.html

2/3

30/08/2025 The Foreign Recruiting Act, 1874
2 Throughout this Act, except otherwise provided, the words "Bangladesh" and "Government" were substituted, for the words "Pakistan" and "Central Government"
respectively by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)

3 The words, comma and figure "Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898" were substituted, for the words "Code of Criminal Procedure" by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the
Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)

Copyright © 2019, Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Division

Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-31.html 3/3

