30/08/2025 The Municipal Taxation Act, 1881

The Municipal Taxation Act, 1881
(ACT NO. XI OF 1881 )

1#An Act to give power to prohibit the levy of municipal taxes in certain cases.

Preamble

WHEREAS it is expedient to empower the Government to prohibit, in certain cases, the levy of municipal taxes payable by persons
in the military, naval or air-force service or by the Government; It is hereby enacted as follows:-

Short title 1. This Act may be called the Municipal Taxation Act, 1881.

Local extent It extends to the whole of 2[ Bangladesh].

“Municipal 2. In this Act “Municipal Committee” ‘[includes a Paurashava or a Municipal Corporation] or a body of

Committee”

defined Municipal Commissioners constituted by or under the provisions of any enactment for the time being in
force.

Power to prohibit 3. Notwithstanding anything contained in any enactment for the time being in force, the Government

levy of tax re ap: _ , -
may, by an order in writing, prohibit the levy by a Municipal Committee of any specified tax-

(a) payable by any person subject to “[the Army Act, 1952, the Naval Discipline Ordinance, 1961 or

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-44.html 1/3

30/08/2025

Power of
Government to
prohibit levy of
taxes on it

Government to
pay taxes
referred to in
section 3

Payments to be
made in lieu of
taxes referred to
in section 3A

Decision of
questions arising
under this Act

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-44.html

The Municipal Taxation Act, 1881

the Air Force Act, 1953] who is compelled by the exigencies of Military, Naval or Air-force duty to reside

within the limits of a municipality;

The Government may, by a like order, rescind any such prohibition.

3A. Notwithstanding anything in any enactment for the time being in force, the Government may by an
order in writing prohibit the levy by a Municipal Committee of any specified tax payable by the

Government and may by a like order rescind any such prohibition.

4. So long as any order made under section 3, prohibiting the levy of a tax on any person mentioned in
that section remains in force, the Government shall be liable to pay to the Municipal Committee
mentioned in the order the amount which otherwise would have been payable to such Committee by

such person:

Provided that the Government shall not be liable to pay any sum in respect of any horse which such

person is bound, by the regulations of the service to which he belongs, to keep.

5. So long as any order made under section 3A prohibiting the levy of any tax payable by the
Government, remains in force, the said Government shall be liable to pay to the Municipal Committee,
in lieu of such tax, such sums (if any) as an officer from time to time appointed in this behalf by the
Government may, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, from time to time determine to be

fair and reasonable.

6. If any question arises whether any duty is military, naval or air-force duty within the meaning of this

Act, the decision of the Government thereon shall be conclusive.

2/3

30/08/2025 The Municipal Taxation Act, 1881

If any question arises whether any person is compelled as aforesaid to reside within the limits of a
municipality or is bound as aforesaid to keep any horse, the decision thereon of such authority as the

Government may, from time to time, appoint in this behalf shall be conclusive.

1 Throughout this Act, except otherwise provided, the word “Government” was substituted, for the words “Provincial Government” or “Central Government” by section 3

VIII of 1973)

3 The words “includes a Paurashava or a Municipal Corporation” were substituted, for the words “includes a Municipal Corporation” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the

4 The words, commas and figures “the Army Act, 1952, the Naval Discipline Ordinance, 1961 or the Air Force Act, 1953” were substituted, for the words, commas, figures
and bracket “the Army Act, the Indian Army Act, 1911 or the Pakistan Army Act, 1952, the Naval Discipline Act or that Act as modified by the Pakistan Navy (Discipline)
Act, 1934, the Air Force Act or the Indian Air Force Act, 1932 or the Pakistan Air Force Act, 1953” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And
Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)

Copyright © 2019, Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Division

Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-44.html 3/3

