05/09/2025

The Private Fisheries Protection Act, 1889

The Private Fisheries Protection Act, 1889
(ACT NO. Il OF 1889 )

1#An Act for the protection of the right of fishing in private waters.

WHEREAS it is expedient to provide for the protection of private rights of fishery; It is hereby enacted as follows:-

Short title, and
extent

Interpretation
clause

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-61 .html

1. (1) This Act may be called the Private Fisheries Protection Act, 1889.

(2) It extends to the whole of ?[Bangladesh].

2. In this Act—
“fish” includes shell-fish and turtles;

“fixed engine” means any net, cage, trap or other contrivance for taking fish fixed in the soil or made

stationary in any other way;
“private waters” means waters-
(a) which are the exclusive property of any person; or

(b) in which any person has an exclusive right of fishery, and in which fish are not confined but have

means of ingress or egress.

1/3

05/09/2025

Penalties

Forfeiture of fixed
engine

Removal of fixed
engine

Entry upon the
land of another or
upon private
waters with intent

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-61.html

The Private Fisheries Protection Act, 1889

3. Any person who-

(a) fishes in any private waters, not having a right to fish therein,

(b) erects, places, maintains or uses any fixed engine in private waters, or puts, or knowingly permits to
be put, therein any matter for the purpose of catching or destroying fish without the permission of the
person to whom the right of fishery therein belongs;

shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be punished for a first offence with a fine not exceeding fifty
Taka.

and for a subsequent offence with imprisonment which may be simple or rigorous, for a term not
exceeding one month or with a fine not exceeding two hundred Taka, or both:

Provided that nothing herein contained shall apply to acts done by any person in the exercise of a bona
fide claim of right, or shall prevent any person from angling with a rod and line or with a line only in any

portion of a navigable river.

4. (1) Any fixed engine erected, placed, maintained or used in contravention of the last preceding
section, and any fish taken by means of such engine, or otherwise in contravention of this Act, shall be

forfeited.

(2) And such fixed engine may be removed or taken possession of by the Magistrate of the district, or

such person as he empowers in this behalf.

5. Whoever enters upon land in the possession of another or upon private waters, with intent to commit

any of the offences specified in section 3, shall be punished with a fine not exceeding fifty Taka.

2/3

05/09/2025 The Private Fisheries Protection Act, 1889

to commit an
offence

Offences under 6. Offences committed, under this Act shall be considered to be “cognizable offences” as defined in the
this Act

considered
“cognizable
offences”

Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898.

1 Throughout this Act, except otherwise provided, the word “Taka” was substituted, for the word “rupees” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws
(Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973).

2 The word “Bangladesh” was substituted, for the words “East Pakistan” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973
(Act VIII of 1973)

Copyright © 2019, Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Division

Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-61.html 3/3

