05/09/2025

The Partition Act, 1893

The Partition Act, 1893
(ACT NO. IV OF 1893 )

An Act to amend the Law relating to Partition.

WHEREAS it is expedient to amend the Law relating to partition; It is hereby enacted as follows:-

Title, Extent and
saving

Power to Court to
order sale instead
of division in
partition suits

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-68.html

1. (1) This Act may be called the Partition Act, 1893.

(2) It extends to the whole of '[Bangladesh];

(3) [Repealed by section 3 and Schedule II of the Repealing and Amending Act, 1914 (Act No. X of
1914).]

(4) But nothing herein contained shall be deemed to affect any [other] law providing for the partition of

immoveable property paying revenue to Government.

2. Wherever in any suit for partition in which, if instituted prior to the commencement of this Act, a
decree for partition might have been made, it appears to the Court that, by reason of the nature of the
property to which the suit relates, or of the number of the shareholders therein or of any other special
circumstance, a division of the property cannot reasonably or conveniently be made, and that a sale of

the property, and distribution of the proceeds would be more beneficial for all the shareholders, the

1/4

05/09/2025

Procedure when
sharer
undertakes to
buy

Partition suit by
transferee of
share in dwelling-
house

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-68.html

The Partition Act, 1893

court may, if it thinks fit, on the request of any of such shareholders interested individually or
collectively to the extent of one moiety or upwards, direct a sale of the property and a distribution of the

proceeds.

3. (1) If, in any case in which the Court is requested under the last foregoing section to direct a sale,
any other shareholder applies for leave to buy at a valuation the share or shares of the party or parties
asking for a sale, the Court shall order a valuation of the share or shares in such manner as it may
think fit and offer to sell the same to such shareholder at the price so ascertained, and may give all

necessary and proper directions in that behalf.

(2) If two or more shareholders severally apply for leave to buy as provided in sub-section (1), the
Court shall order a sale of the share or shares to the shareholder who offers to pay the highest price

above the valuation made by the Court.

(3) If no such shareholder is willing to buy such share or shares at the price so ascertained, the

applicant or applicants shall be liable to pay all costs of or incident to the application or applications.

4. (1) Where a share of a dwelling-house belonging to an undivided family has been transferred to a
person who is not a member of such family and such transferee sues for partition, the Court shall, if
any member of the family being a shareholder shall undertake to buy the share of such transferee,
make a valuation of such share in such manner as it thinks fit and direct the sale of such share to such
shareholder, and may give all necessary and proper directions in that behalf.

(2) If in any case describes in sub-section (1) two or more members of the family being such
shareholders severally undertake to buy such share, the Court shall follow the procedure prescribed by

sub-section (2) of the last foregoing section

2/4

05/09/2025

Representation of
parties under
disability

Reserved bidding
and bidding by
shareholders

Procedure to be
followed in case
of sales

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-68.html

The Partition Act, 1893

5. In any suit for partition a request for sale may be made or an undertaking, or application for leave, to
buy may be given or made on behalf of any party under disability by any person authorized to act on
behalf of such party in such suit, but the Court shall not be bound to comply with any such request,
undertaking or application unless it is of opinion that the sale or purchase will be for the benefit of the

party under such disability.

6. (1) Every sale under section 2 shall be subject to a reserved bidding, and the amount of such bidding
shall be fixed by the Court in such manner as it may think fit and may be varied from time to time.

(2) On any such sale any of the shareholders shall be at liberty to bid at the sale on such terms as to
non-payment of deposit or as to setting off or accounting for the purchase-money or any part thereof
instead of paying the same as to the Court may seem reasonable.

(3) If two or more persons, of whom one is a shareholder in the property, respectively advance the
same sum at any bidding at such sale, such bidding shall be deemed to be the bidding of the

shareholder.

7. Save as hereinbefore provided, when any property is directed to be sold under this Act, the following
procedure shall, as far as practicable, be adopted, namely:-

ar" * *),

(b) if the property be sold under a decree or order of any

4[* * *] Court, such procedure as the *[Supreme Court] may from time to time by rules prescribe in this
behalf, and until such rules are made, the procedure prescribed in the Code of Civil Procedure in

respect of sales in execution of decrees.

3/4

05/09/2025

The Partition Act, 1893

Orders for sale to 8. Any order for sale made by the Court under section 2, 3 or 4 shall be deemed to be a decree within

be deemed
the meaning of section 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure.

decrees

Saving of Power 9. In any suit for partition the Court may, if it shall think fit, make a decree for a partition of part of the
to order partly

partition and property to which the suit relates and a sale of the remainder under this Act.

partly sale

[Omitted] 10. [Omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act,

1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973).]

VIII of 1973)

2 The word "other" was substituted, for the word "local" by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of
1973)

(Act No. VIII of 1973).

Copyright © 2019, Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Division

Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-68.html 4/4

