03/09/2025

The Telegraph Act, 1885

The Telegraph Act, 1885
(ACT NO. XIII OF 1885 )

1#An Act to amend the law relating to Telegraphs in Bangladesh.

WHEREAS it is expedient to amend the law relating to telegraphs in Bangladesh. It is hereby enacted as follows:-

Short title, local
extent and
commencement

[Repealed]

Definitions

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

PART |
PRELIMINARY
1. (1) This Act may be called the Telegraph Act, 1885.

(2) It extends to the whole of Bangladesh, and it applies also to all citizens of Bangladesh and persons

in the service of [Republic] wherever they may be.

(3) It shall come into force on the first day of October, 1885.

2. [Repealed by section 2 and Schedule of the Repealing Act, 1938 (Act No. | of 1938).]

3. In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or context,-
(1) “telegraph” means an electric, galvanic or magnetic telegraph, and includes appliances and
apparatus for making, transmitting or receiving telegraphic, telephonic or other communications by

means of electricity, galvanism or magnetism:

1/19

03/09/2025

Exclusive
privilege in
respect of
telegraphs, and

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

(2) “telegraph officer” means any person employed either permanently or temporarily in connection with
a telegraph established, maintained or worked by the Government or by a person licensed under this
Act:

(3) “message” means any communication sent by telegraph, or given to a telegraph officer to be sent
by telegraph or to be delivered:

(4) “telegraph line” means a wire or wires used for the purpose of a telegraph, with any casing, coating,
tube or pipe enclosing the same, and any appliances and apparatus connected therewith for the
purpose of fixing or insulating the same:

(5) “post” means a post, pole, standard, stay, strut or other above-ground contrivance for carrying,
suspending or supporting a telegraph line:

(6) “telegraph authority” means the Director General, Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone
Department, and includes any officer empowered by him to perform all or any of the functions of the
telegraph authority under this Act:

(7) “local authority” means any municipal committee, district board, body of port commissioners or other
authority legally entitled to, or entrusted by the Government with, the control or management of any

municipal or local fund.

PART Il
PRIVILEGES AND POWERS OF THE GOVERNMENT

4. (1) Within Bangladesh, the Government shall have the exclusive privilege of establishing,
maintaining and working telegraphs:

Provided that the Government may grant a license, on such conditions and in consideration of such

payments as it thinks fit, to any person to establish, maintain or work a telegraph within any part of

2/19

03/09/2025

power to grant
licenses

Power for
Government to
take possession
of licensed
telegraphs and to
order interception
of messages

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

Bangladesh:
Provided further that the Government may, by rules made under this Act and published in the official
Gazette, permit, subject to such restrictions and conditions as it thinks fit, the establishment,

maintenance and working _

(a) of wireless telegraphs on ships within Bangladesh territorial waters and on aircraft within or above
Bangladesh or Bangladesh territorial waters, and

(b) of telegraphs other than wireless telegraphs within any part of Bangladesh.

(2) The Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, delegate to the telegraph authority all or
any of its powers under the first proviso to sub-section (1).

The exercise by the telegraph authority of any power so delegated shall be subject to such restrictions

and conditions as the Government may, by the notification, think fit to impose.

5. (1) On the occurrence of any public emergency, or in the interest of the public safety, the
Government or any officer specially authorised in this behalf by the Government, may-

(a) take temporary possession of any telegraph established, maintained or worked by any person
licensed under this Act; or

(b) order that any message or class of messages to or from any person or class of persons or relating
to any particular subject brought for transmission by, or transmitted or received by, any telegraph, shall
not be transmitted, or shall be intercepted or detained, or shall be disclosed to the Government making
the order or an officer thereof mentioned in the order.

(2) If any doubt arises as to the existence of a public emergency, or whether any act done under sub-

section (1) was in the interest of the public safety, a certificate of the Central or, as the case may be,

3/19

03/09/2025

[Omitted]

Power to make
rules for the
conduct of
telegraphs

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

the Government shall be conclusive proof on the point.

6. [Omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act,
1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973).]

7. (1) The Government may, from time to time, by notification in the official Gazette, make rules
consistent with this Act for the conduct of all or any telegraphs established, maintained or worked by
the Government or by persons licensed under this Act.

(2) Rules under this section may provide for all or any of the following, among other matters, that is to
say:-

(a) the rates at which, and the other conditions and restrictions subject to which, messages shall be
transmitted;

(b) the precautions to be taken for preventing the improper interception or disclosure of messages;

(c) the period for which, and the conditions subject to which, telegrams and other documents belonging
to, or being in the custody of, telegraph officers shall be preserved; and

(d) the fees to be charged for searching for telegrams or other documents in the custody of any
telegraph officer.

(3) When making rules for the conduct of any telegraph established, maintained or worked by any
person licensed under this Act, the Government may, by the rules, prescribe fines for any breach of the
same:

Provided that the fines so prescribed shall not exceed the following limits, namely:-

(i) when the person licensed under this Act is punishable for the breach, one thousand Taka and in the

case of a continuing breach a further fine of two hundred Taka for everyday after the first during the

4/19

03/09/2025 The Telegraph Act, 1885

whole or any part of which the breach continues;

(ii) when a servant of the person so licensed, or any other person, is punishable for the breach, one-

fourth of the amounts specified in clause (i).

[7A. If any person does not pay any sum due from him under this Act in respect of any telegraph or
message, the sum so due may, on application made by the telegraph authority in this behalf, be
recovered from such person, as if it were a fine imposed under this Act by any Magistrate having
jurisdiction where that person may for the time being be resident; and the telegraph authority may
further direct that any message, or postal article as defined in clause (i) of section 2 of the Post Office
Act, 1898 not being on Bangladesh State Service, addressed to that person, shall be withheld from him

until the sum so due is paid or recovered as aforesaid.]

Recovery of dues 317A. If any person does not pay any sum due from him under this Act in respect of any telegraph
in respect of

telegraph, etc. or message, the sum so due may, on application made by the telegraph authority in this behalf, be

recovered from such person, as if it were a fine imposed under this Act by any Magistrate having
jurisdiction where that person may for the time being be resident; and the telegraph authority may
further direct that any message, or postal article as defined in clause (i) of section 2 of the Post
Office Act, 1898 not being on Bangladesh State Service, addressed to that person, shall be

withheld from him until the sum so due is paid or recovered as aforesaid. ]

Revocation of 8. The Government may, at any time, revoke any license granted under section 4, on the breach of any

licenses
of the conditions therein contained, or in default of payment of any consideration payable thereunder.

Government not 9. The Government shall not be responsible for any loss or damage which may occur in consequence

to responsible for
of any telegraph officer failing in his duty with respect to the receipt, transmission or delivery of any

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html 5/19

03/09/2025

loss or damage

Power for
telegraph
authority to place
and maintain
telegraph lines
and posts

Power to enter on
property in order
to repair or

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

message; and no such officer shall be responsible for any such loss or damage unless he causes the

same negligently, maliciously or fraudulently.

PART Ill
POWERS TO PLACE TELEGRAPH LINES AND POSTS

10. The telegraph authority may, from time to time, place and maintain a telegraph line under, over,
along or across, and posts in or upon, any immoveable property:

Provided that-

(a) the telegraph authority shall not exercise the powers conferred by this section except for the
purposes of a telegraph established or maintained by the Government, or to be so established or

maintained;

(b) the Government shall not acquire any right other than that of user only in the property under, over,
along, across, in or upon which the telegraph authority places any telegraph line or post; and

(c) except as hereinafter provided, the telegraph authority shall not exercise those powers in respect of
any property vested in or under the control or management of any local authority, without the
permission of that authority; and

(d) in the exercise of the powers conferred by this section, the telegraph authority shall do as little
damage as possible, and, when it has exercised those powers in respect of any property other than
that referred to in clause (c), shall pay full compensation to all persons interested for any damage

sustained by them by reason of the exercise of those powers.

11. The telegraph authority may, at any time, for the purpose of examining, repairing, altering or

removing any telegraph line or post, enter on the property under, over, along, across, in or upon which

6/19

03/09/2025

remove telegraph
lines or posts

The Telegraph Act, 1885

the line or post has been placed.

Provisions applicable to Property vested in or under the Control or Management of Local Authorities.

Power for local
authority to give
permission under
section 10, clause
(c), subject to
conditions

Power for local
authority to
require removal
or alteration of
telegraph lines or
post

Power to alter
position of gas or
water pipes or
drains

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

12. Any permission given by a local authority under section 10, clause (c), may be given subject to
such reasonable conditions as that authority thinks fit to impose, as to the payment of any expenses to
which the authority will necessarily be put in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by
that section, or as to the time or mode of execution of any work, or as to any other thing connected with

or relative to any work undertaken by the telegraph authority under those powers.

13. When, under the foregoing provisions of this Act, a telegraph line or post has been placed by the
telegraph authority under, over, along, across, in or upon any property vested in or under the control or
management of a local authority, and the local authority, having regard to circumstances which have
arisen since the telegraph line or post was so placed, considers it expedient that it should be removed
or that its position should be altered, the local authority may require the telegraph authority to remove it

or alter its position, as the case may be.

14. The telegraph authority may, for the purpose of exercising the power conferred upon it by this Act in
respect of any property vested in or under the control or management of a local authority, alter the
position thereunder on any pipe (not being a main) for the supply of gas or water, or of any drain (not
being a main drain):

Provided that-

(a) when the telegraph authority desires to alter the position of any such pipe or drain, it shall give

reasonable notice of its intention to do so, specifying the time at which it will begin to do so, to the local

7/19

03/09/2025 The Telegraph Act, 1885

authority, and, when the pipe or drain is not under the control of the local authority, to the person under
whose control the pipe or drain is;

(b) a local authority or person receiving notice under clause (a) may send a person to superintend the

work, and the telegraph authority shall execute the work to the reasonable satisfaction of the person so

sent.

Disputes between 15. (1) If any dispute arises between the telegraph authority and a local authority in consequence of the

telegraph , ; . , , a ag:
authority and local authority refusing the permission referred to in section 10, clause (c), or prescribing any condition
local authority under section 12, or in consequence of the telegraph authority omitting to comply with a requisition
made under section 13, or otherwise in respect of the exercise of the powers conferred by this Acct, it
shall be determined by such officer as the Government may appoint either generally or specially in this
behalf.
(2) An appeal from the determination of the officer so appointed shall lie to the Government; and the
order of the Government shall be final.
Provisions applicable to other Property
Exercise of 16. (1) If the exercise of the powers mentioned in section 10 in respect of property referred to in

powers conferred

by section 10 clause (d) of that section is resisted or obstructed, the District Magistrate may, in his discretion,

and disputes as order that the telegraph authority shall be permitted to exercise them.

to compensation,

in case of (2) If, after the making of an order under sub-section (1), any person resists the exercise of those
property other powers, or, having control over the property, does not give all facilities for their being exercised, he
than that of a

local authority shall be deemed to have committed an offence under section 188 of the 4[Penal Code].

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html 8/19

03/09/2025

Removal or
alteration of
telegraph line or
post on property
other than that of
a local authority

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

(3) If any dispute arises concerning the sufficiency of the compensation to be paid under section
10, clause (d), it shall, on application for that purpose by either of the disputing parties to the

District Judge within whose jurisdiction the property is situate, be determined by him.

(4) If any dispute arises as to the persons entitled to receive compensation or as to the proportions
in which the persons interested are entitled to share in it, the telegraph authority may pay into the
Court of the District Judge such amount as he deems sufficient, or, where all the disputing parties
have in writing admitted the amount tendered to be sufficient or the amount has been determined
under sub-section (3), that amount; and the District Judge, after giving notice to the parties and
hearing such of them as desire to be heard, shall determine the persons entitled to receive the
compensation or, as the case may be, the proportions in which the persons interested are entitled

to share in it.

(5) Every determination of a dispute by a District Judge under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4)

shall be final:

Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall affect the right of any person to recover by suit the
whole or any part of any compensation paid by the telegraph authority from the person who has

received the same.

17. (1) When, under the foregoing provisions of this Act, a telegraph line or post has been placed
by the telegraph authority under, over, along, across, in or upon any property, not being property
vested in or under the control or management of a local authority, and any person entitled to do so

desires to deal with that property in such a manner as to render it necessary or convenient that the

9/19

03/09/2025 The Telegraph Act, 1885

telegraph line or post should be removed to another part thereof or to a higher or lower level or
altered in form, he may require the telegraph authority to remove or alter the line or post

accordingly:

Provided that, if compensation has been paid under section 10, clause (d), he shall, when making
the requisition, tender to the telegraph authority the amount requisite to defray the expense of the
removal or alteration, or half of the amount paid as compensation, whichever may be the smaller

sum.

(2) If the telegraph authority omits to comply with the requisition, the person making it may apply to
the District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction the property is situate to order the removal or

alteration.

(3) A District Magistrate receiving an application under sub-section (2) may, in his discretion, reject
the same or make an order absolutely or subject to conditions, for the removal of the telegraph line
or post to any other part of the property or to a higher or lower level, or for the alteration of its form;

and the order so made shall be final.

Provisions applicable to all Property

Removal of trees 18. (1) If any tree standing or lying near a telegraph line interrupts, or is likely to interrupt,
interrupting — a
telegraphic telegraphic communication, a Magistrate of the first or second class may, on the application of the

communication telegraph authority, cause the tree to be removed or dealt with in such other way as he deems fit.

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html 10/19

03/09/2025

Telegraph lines
and posts placed
before the
passing of this
Act

Person
exercising legal
right likely to
damage telegraph
or interfere with
telegraphic
communication
to give notice

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

(2) When disposing of an application under sub-section (1), the Magistrate shall, in the case of any
tree in existence before the telegraph line was placed, award to the persons interested in the tree

such compensation as he thinks reasonable, and the award shall be final.

19. Every telegraph line or post placed before the passing of this Act under, over, along, across, in
or upon any property, for the purposes of a telegraph established or maintained by the
Government, shall be deemed to have been placed in exercise of the powers conferred by, and

after observance of all the requirements of, this Act.

5[19A. (1) Any person desiring to deal in the legal exercise of a right with any property in such a
manner as is likely to cause damage to a telegraph line or post which has been duly placed in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, or to interrupt or interfere with telegraphic
communication, shall give not less than one month's notice in writing of the intended exercise of
such right to the telegraph authority, or to any telegraph officer whom the telegraph authority may

empower in this behalf.

(2) If any such person without having complied with the provisions of sub-section (1) deals with any
property in such a manner as is likely to cause damage to any telegraph line or post, or to interrupt
or interfere with telegraphic communication, a Magistrate of the first or second class may, on the
application of the telegraph authority, order such person to abstain form dealing with such property
in such manner for a period not exceeding one month from the date of his order and forthwith to
take such action with regard to such property as may be in the opinion of the Magistrate necessary

to remedy or prevent such damage, interruption or interference during such period.

11/19

03/09/2025 The Telegraph Act, 1885

(3) A person dealing with any property in the manner referred to in sub-section (1) with the bona
fide intention of averting imminent danger of personal injury to himself or any other human being
shall be deemed to have complied with the provisions of the said sub-section if he gives such
notice of the intended exercise of the right as is in the circumstances possible, or where no such
previous notice can be given without incurring the imminent danger referred to above, if he
forthwith gives notice of the actual exercise of such right to the authority or officer specified in the

said sub-section.

Power to confer 19B. The Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, confer upon any licensee under
upon licensee , , a, , - a ;

section 4, in respect of the extent of his license and subject to any conditions and restrictions which
powers of
telegraph the Government may think fit to impose and to the provisions of this Part, all or any of the powers
ae oe under which the telegraph authority possesses under this Part with regard to a telegraph established or

is Par

maintained by the Government or to be so established or maintained:

Provided that the notice prescribed in section 19A shall always be given to the telegraph authority

or officer empowered to received notice under section 19A (1).]

PART IV
PENALTIES

Establishing, 20. (1) If any person establishes, maintains or works a telegraph within Bangladesh in contravention of
maintaining or ; ;
working the provisions of section 4 or otherwise than as permitted by rules made under that section, he shall be
unauthorised punished, if the telegraph is a wireless telegraph, with imprisonment which may extend to three years,
telegraph

or with fine, or with both, and, in any other case, with a fine which may extend to one thousand Taka.

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html 12/19

03/09/2025

Breach of
condition of
license

Using
unauthorised
telegraphs

[Omitted]

Intrusion into
signal-room,
trespass in

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, offences under this
section in respect of a wireless telegraph shall, for the purposes of the said Code, be bailable and non-

cognizable.

(3) When any person is convicted of an offence punishable under this section, the Court before which
he is convicted may direct that the telegraph in respect of which the offence has been committed, or

any part of such telegraph, be forfeited to Government.

8[20A. If the holder of a license granted under section 4 contravenes any condition contained in his
license, he shall be punished with fine which may extend to one thousand Taka, and with a further
fine which may extend to five hundred Taka for every week during which the breach of the

condition continues. ]

21. If any person, knowing or having reason to believe that a telegraph has been established or is
maintained or worked, in contravention of this Act, transmits or receives any message by such
telegraph, or performs any service incidental thereto, or delivers any message for transmission by such
telegraph, or accepts delivery of any message sent thereby, he shall be punished with fine which may

extend to fifty Taka.

22. [Omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act,
1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973).]

23. If any person-

(a) without permission of competent authority, enters the signal-room of a telegraph office of the

Government, or of a person licensed under this Act, or

13/19

03/09/2025

telegraph office
or obstruction

Unlawfully
attempting to
learn contents of
messages

Intentionally
damaging or
tampering with
telegraphs

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

(b) enters a fenced enclosure round such a telegraph office in contravention of any rule or notice not to

do so, or

(c) refuses to quit such room or enclosure on being requested to do so by any officer or servant

employed therein, or
(d) wilfully obstructs or impedes any such officer or servant in the performance of his duty,

he shall be punished with fine which may extend to five hundred Taka.

24. If any person does any of the acts mentioned in section 23 with the intention of unlawfully learning
the contents of any message, or of committing any offence punishable under this Act, he may (in
addition to the fine with which he is punishable under section 23) be punished with imprisonment for a

term which may extend to one year.

25. (1) If any person, intending-

(a) to prevent or obstruct the transmission or delivery of any message, or
(b) to intercept or to acquaint himself with the contents of any message, or
(c) to commit mischief,

damages, removes, tampers with or touches any battery, machinery, telegraph line, post or other thing
whatever, being part of or used in or about any telegraph or in the working thereof, he shall be
punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

(2) If any wire used for the purpose of a telegraph or a telegraph line is found in the possession of a
person, other than a licensee under section 4, or a person who, in course of his duty, is in possession
of such wire, he shall be deemed to have committed an offence punishable under section 411 of the

7[Penal Code].

14/19

03/09/2025

Injury to or
interference with
a telegraph line
or post

Telegraph officer
or other official
making away with
or altering or
unlawfully
intercepting or
disclosing
messages, or
divulging purport
of signals

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

8[25A. If, in any case not provided for by section 25, any person deals with any property and
thereby wilfully or negligently damages any telegraph line or post duly placed on such property in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, he shall be liable to pay the telegraph authority such
expenses (if any) as may be incurred in making good such damage, and shall also, if the
telegraphic communication is by reason of the damage so caused interrupted, be punishable with a

fine which may extend to one thousand Taka:

Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply where such damage or interruption is
caused by a person dealing with any property in the legal exercise of a right if he has complied with

the provisions of section 19A (1).]

26. If any telegraph officer, or any person, not being a telegraph officer but having official duties

connected with any office which is used as a telegraph office,-

(a) wilfully secretes, makes away with or alters any message which he has received for transmission or

delivery, or

(b) wilfully and otherwise than in obedience to an order of the Government or of a Government, or of an
officer specially authorised by the Government to make the order, omits to transmit, or intercepts or
detains, any message or any part thereof, or otherwise than in pursuance of his official duty or in
obedience to the direction of a competent Court, discloses the contents or any part of the contents of

any message, to any person not entitled to receive the same, or

(c) divulges the purport of any telegraphic signal to any person not entitled to become acquainted with

the same,

15/19

03/09/2025

Telegraph officer
fraudulently
sending
messages
without payment

Misconduct

Sending
fabricated or
obscene
messages

Penalty

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

he shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine, or with

both.

27. |f any telegraph officer transmits by telegraph any message on which the charge prescribed by the
Government, or by a person licensed under this Act, as the case may be, has not been paid, intending
thereby to defraud the Government or that person, he shall be punished with imprisonment for a term

which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

28. If any telegraph officer, or any person not being a telegraph officer but having official duties
connected with any office which is used as a telegraph office, is guilty of any act of drunkenness,
carelessness or other misconduct whereby the correct transmission or the delivery of any message is
impeded or delayed, or if any telegraph officer loiters or delays in the transmission or delivery of any
message, he shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with

fine which may extend to one hundred Taka or with both.

29. If any person transmits or causes to be transmitted by telegraph a message which he knows or has
reason to believe to be false or fabricated, or a message which is indecent or obscene, he shall be

punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

9[29A. If any person, without due authority,-
(a) makes or issues any document of a nature reasonably calculated to cause it to be believed that the
document has been issued by, or under the authority of, the Director General, Bangladesh Telegraph

and Telephone Department, or

16/19

03/09/2025

Retaining a
message
delivered by
mistake

Bribery

Attempt to
commit offences

Power to employ
additional police
in places where
mischief to

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

The Telegraph Act, 1885

(b) makes on any document any mark in imitation of, or similar to, or purporting to be, any stamp or
mark of any telegraph office under the Director General, Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone
Department, or a mark of a nature reasonably calculated to cause it to be believed that the document
so marked has been issued by, or under the authority of, the Director General, Bangladesh Telegraph

and Telephone Department,

he shall be punished with fine which may extend to fifty Taka.]

30. If any person fraudulently retains, or wilfully secretes, makes away with or detains a message
which ought to have been delivered to some other person, or, being required by a telegraph officer to
deliver up any such message, neglects or refuses to do so, he shall be punished with imprisonment for

a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

31. A telegraph officer shall be deemed a public servant within the meaning of sections 161,
162,163,164 and 165 of the ‘[Penal Code]; and in the definition of “legal remuneration” contained in
the said section 161, the word “Government” shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to include a

person licensed under this Act.

32. Whoever attempts to commit any offence punishable under this Act shall be punished with the

punishment herein provided for the offence.

PART V
SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

33. (1) Whenever it appears to the Government that any act causing or likely to cause wrongful
damage to any telegraph is repeatedly and maliciously committed in any place, and that the

employment of an additional police-force in that place is thereby rendered necessary, the Government

17/19

03/09/2025

The Telegraph Act, 1885

telegraphs is may send such additional police-force as it thinks fit to the place, and employ the same therein so long
repeatedly

. as, in the opinion of that Government, the necessity of doing so continues.
committed

(2) The inhabitants of the place shall be charged with the cost of the additional police-force, and the
District Magistrate shall, subject to the orders of the Government, assess the proportion in which the
cost shall be paid by the inhabitants according to his judgment of their respective means.

(3) All moneys payable under sub-section (2) shall be recoverable either under the warrant of a
Magistrate by distress and sale of the moveable property of the defaulter within the local limits of his
jurisdiction, or by suit in any competent Court.

(4) The Government may, by order in writing, define the limits of any place for the purposes of this

section.

[Omitted] 34. [Omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act,
1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973).]

1 Throughout this Act, except otherwise provided, the words “Bangladesh”, “Government” and “Taka” or “Tk.” were substituted, for the words and commas “Pakistan”,
“Central Government” or "Provincial Government" or “Central or any Provincial Government” or “Central or a Provincial Government” or "Central Government or of a
Provincial Government" or “Central or, as the case may be, the Provincial Government” and “rupees” or “Rs.” respectively by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the

VIII of 1973)
3 Section 7A was inserted by section 2 of the Telegraph (Amendment) Act, 1957 (Act No. XXV of 1957)

4 The words “Penal Code” were substituted, for the words “Pakistan Penal Code” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act,
1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)

5 Sections 19A and 19B were inserted by section 5 of the Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Act, 1914 (Act No. VII of 1914)

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html

18/19

03/09/2025 The Telegraph Act, 1885

6 Section 20A was inserted by section 7 of the Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Act, 1914 (Act No. VII of 1914)

7 The words “Penal Code” were substituted, for the words “Pakistan Penal Code” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act,
1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)

8 Section 25A was inserted by section 8 of the Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Act, 1914 (Act No. VII of 1914)
2 Section 29A was inserted by section 9 of the Indian Telegraph (Amendment) Act, 1914 (Act No. VII of 1914)

10 The words “Penal Code” were substituted, for the words “Pakistan Penal Code” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration),
Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)

Copyright © 2019, Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Division

Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-55.html 19/19

