03/09/2025 The Ferries Act, 1885

The Ferries Act, 1885
(ACT NO. | OF 1885 )

1#An Act to regulate Ferries in Bangladesh.

Preamble

WHEREAS it is expedient to regulate ferries in Bangla-desh; It is enacted as follows:-

PRELIMINARY

Short title 1. This Act may be called the 2[* * *] Ferries Act, 1885.
Extent and 2. It extends to the whole of Bangladesh and shall come into force on such date as the Government
commencement

may by notification in the official Gazette appoint in this behalf.
[Omitted] 3. [Omitted by First Schedule of the East Pakistan Ordinance, 1962 (Ordinance No. XIII of 1962).]
4. Act not to 4. Nothing in this Act contained shall apply to any ferry deemed or declared to be a municipal ferry
apply to

. under the provisions of the Municipal Administration Ordinance, 1960.
municipal ferries

Interpretation 5. In this Act, unless there be something repugnant in the subject or context,-

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of a Division:

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html 1/13

03/09/2025

Power to declare,
establish, define
and discontinue
public ferries

Control of public
ferries vested in

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html

The Ferries Act, 1885

“ferry” includes a bridge of boats, pontoons or rafts, a swing-bridge, a flying bridge, a temporary bridge,

and a landing stage:“notification” means a notification published in the official Gazette.

“private ferries” includes all ferries other than those declared to be public ferries, or established as

such, under section 6 of this Act.

PART |
PUBLIC FERRIES
6. It shall be lawful for the Government from time to time to-

(a) declare what ferries shall be deemed public ferries, and the respective districts in which, for the

purposes of this Act, they shall be deemed to be situate;

(b) take possession of a private ferry and declare it to be a public ferry;
(c) establish new public ferries where, in its opinion, they are needed;
(d) define the limits of any public ferry;

(e) change the course of any public ferry; and

(f) discontinue any public ferry which it deems unnecessary.

Every such declaration, establishment, definition, change or discontinuance shall be made by
notification:

Provided that, when any alteration in the course or in the limits of a public ferry is rendered necessary
by changes in the river on which such ferry is established, such alteration may be made, by an order in

writing, by the Magistrate of the district.

7. The control of all public ferries shall be vested in the Magistrate of the district, subject to the direction

2/13

03/09/2025

the Magistrate of
the district

Superintendence
of public ferries

Ferry tolls may be
leased by auction

Execution of
contract by
lessee

Lessee of the
tolls of a public
ferry and his
servants bound

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html

The Ferries Act, 1885

of the Commissioner.

8. The immediate superintendence of every public ferry shall be vested in the Magistrate of the district
in which such ferry is situated, or in such other officer as the Government may, from time to time, either

by name or by official designation, appoint.

And such Magistrate or officer shall, except when the tolls at such ferry are leased, make all necessary
arrangements for the supply of boats for such ferry, and for the collection of the authorised tolls liveable

thereat.

9. The tolls of any public ferry may, from time to time, be leased by public auction for such term as the
Magistrate of the district in which such ferry is situated may, with the approval of the Commissioner,

direct.

The Magistrate of the district or the officer authorised by him to conduct such auction may, for sufficient
reason to be recorded in writing, refuse to accept the offer of the highest bidder, and may accept any

other bid, or may withdraw the tolls from auction.

The lessee of the tolls of every ferry which have been leased under this section shall execute a
contract setting forth the conditions on which the tolls of such ferry are to be held, and shall give

security for its due fulfilment.

10. When the tolls of a public ferry have been duly leased, the lessee and every servant of the lessee
shall be deemed to be legally bound to conform to the rules made under this Act for the management

and control of such ferry.

3/13

03/09/2025

to conform to
rules

Provision for the
establishment of
subsidiary ferry

Recovery of
arrears from
lessee

Power to cancel
lease

Surrender of
lease

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html

The Ferries Act, 1885

11. On the requisition of the Magistrate of the district the person in change of a public ferry situate in
such district shall maintain at one or more places, in addition to the place at which the said public ferry
is established, and within two miles therefrom, such number of subsidiary ferries as may seem to the
Magistrate to be necessary for the public convenience: and all the provisions contained in this Act in
regard to the management and control of public ferries shall be deemed applicable to any subsidiary

ferry maintained under the requisition of the Magistrate.

12. All arrears due by the lessee of the tools of a public ferry on account of his lease;

any pecuniary forfeiture for breach of contract inserted in the deed of contract or conditions of sale by
public auction; and

all sums due from the lessee on the surrender of his lease under section 14,

may be recovered from the lessee or his surety (if any) as a demand under the °[* * *] Public Demands

Recovery Act, 1913, or any other Act at the time being in force for the recovery of public demands.

13. The lease of the tolls of any public ferry shall be liable to be cancelled at once by the Magistrate of
the district in which such ferry is situated, if it shall appear to such Magistrate that the lessee has failed
to make due provision for the convenience or safety of the public within fifteen days after being

required to do so by a notice in writing from such Magistrate.

14. The lessee of the tolls of a public ferry may surrender his lease on the expiration of one month's

notice in writing to the Magistrate of the district in which such ferry is situated of his intention to

4/13

03/09/2025

Power to make
rules in regard to
public ferries

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html

The Ferries Act, 1885

surrender such lease, and on payment of such reasonable compensation as the Magistrate may, with

the approval of the Commissioner, in each case direct.

15. The Magistrate of the district, with the approval of the Commissioner, may from time to time make

rules consistent with this Act,-

(a) for the management of all public ferries within such district, and for regulating the traffic at such

ferries;

(b) for regulating the time and manner at and in which the terms in which, and the person by whom, the

tolls of such ferries may be leased by auction;

(c) for compensating persons who have compounded for tolls payable for the use of any such ferry

when such ferry has been discontinued before the expiration of the period compounded for; and
(d) generally, to carry out the purposes of this Act:

And, when the tolls of a ferry have been leased under section 9, such Magistrate may, from time to

time, with such approval as aforesaid, make additional rules consistent with this Act,-
(e) for collecting the rents payable for the tolls of such ferries;
(f) for regulating the returns of traffic to be, from time to time, submitted by the lessee of such ferries;

(g) in cases in which the communication is to be established by means of a bridge of boats, pontoons
or rafts, or a swing-bridge, flying-bridge or temporary bridge, for regulating the time and manner at and
in which such bridge shall be constructed and maintained, and opened for the passage of vessels and
rafts through the same, and

(h) in cases in which the traffic is conveyed in boats, for regulating-

the number and kinds of such boats and their dimensions and equipment;

5/13

03/09/2025

Private ferry not
to ply within two
miles of public
ferry without
sanction

Claims for
compensation
and what amount
to be awarded

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html

The Ferries Act, 1885

the number of the crew to be kept by the lessee for each boat;

the maintenance of such boats in good condition;

the hours during which, and the intervals within which, the lessee shall be bound to ply; and

the number of passengers, animals and vehicles, and the bulk and weight or other things that may be
carried in each kind of boat at one trip;

and may, from time to time, with such approval as aforesaid, repeal or alter such rules.

Rules made under this section shall be subject to the control of the Government, and shall be

published in the official Gazette in such manner as the Government directs, and shall thereupon have

the force or law.

16. No person shall, except with the sanction of the Magistrate of the district, maintain a ferry to or from

any point within a distance of two miles from the limits of a public ferry:

Provided that, in the case of any specified public ferry, the Government may, by notification, reduce or

increase the said distance of two miles to such extent as it thinks fit:

Provided also that nothing hereinbefore contained shall prevent persons keeping boats to ply between
two places, one of which is without, and one within, the said limits, when the distance between such
two places is not less than three miles, or shall apply to boats which the Magistrate of the district

expressly exempts from the operation of this section.

17. Claims for compensation for any loss sustained by any person in consequent of a private ferry
being taken possession of, or a new public ferry, or subsidiary ferry, being established under section 6

or section 11, shall be inquired into by the Magistrate of the district in which such ferry is situated, who

6/13

03/09/2025

Tolls

Table of tolls

[Omitted]

Compounding for

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html

The Ferries Act, 1885

shall, with the approval of the Commissioner, award compensation to any person who may appear
justly entitled thereto.

Such compensation shall be calculated upon an estimate of the annual net profit actually realized by
such person from such ferry on an average of the five years next preceding such declaration, and shall

in no case exceed the amount of fifteen times such net annual profit.

18. Tolls, according to such rates as may, from time to time, be fixed by the Magistrate of the district
with the approval of the Commissioner, shall be levied on all person, animals, vehicles and other things
crossing any river by a public ferry and not employed or transmitted on the public service:

Provided that the Government may, from time to time, declare that any persons, animals, vehicles or
other things shall be exempt from payment of such tolls.

Where the tolls of a ferry have been leased under section 9, any such declaration, if made after the
date of the auction, shall entitle the lessee to such abatement of the rent payable in respect of the tolls

as may be fixed by the Magistrate of the district under this section.

19. The lessee or other person authorised to collect the tolls of any public ferry shall affix a table of
such tolls, legibly written or printed in the “[Bengali] language, and also, if the Commissioner so directs,
in English, in some conspicuous place near the ferry:

and shall be bound to produce, on demand, a list of the tolls signed by the Magistrate of the district or

such other officer as he appoints in this behalf.

20. [Omitted by Schedule IV of the Government of India (Adaptation of Indian Laws) Order, 1937.]

7/13

03/09/2025 The Ferries Act, 1885

tolls
21. It shall be lawful for the Magistrate of the district in which a public ferry is situated, with the approval

of the Commissioner, from time to time to fix rates at which any person may compound for the tolls

payable for the use of such ferry.

PART Il
PRIVATE FERRIES

Power to make 22. The Commissioner may from time to time make rules consistent with this Act, for the maintenance
rules in regard to

private ferries of order, and for the safety of passengers and property, at private ferries situated in his division.

Rules made under this section shall be subject to the control of the Government, and shall be
published in the official Gazette in such manner as the Government directs, and shall thereupon have

the force of law.

PART Ill
PENALTIES AND CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

Penalty for 23. Every lessee or other person authorised to collect the tolls or a public ferry, who neglects to affix
breach of

provisions as to and keep in good order and repair the table of tolls mentioned in section 19,

table of tolls, list or who wilfully removes, alters or defaces such table, or allows it to become illegible,
of tolls and return
of traffic or who fails to produce on demand the list of the tolls mentioned in section 19,

and every lessee who neglects to furnish any return required under section 15,

shall be punished with fine which may extend to fifty Taka.

Penalty for taking = 94. Every such lessee or other person as aforesaid asking or taking more than the lawful toll, or without

unauthorised
due cause delaying any person, animals, vehicle or other thing, shall be punished with fine which may

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html 8/13

03/09/2025

tolls, and for
causing delay

Penalty for
breach of rules
made under
sections 15 and
22

Cancellation of
lease on default
or breach of rules

Penalties on
passengers
offending

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html

The Ferries Act, 1885

extend to one hundred Taka.

25. Every person breaking any rule made under section 15 or section 22 shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to two

hundred Taka, or with both.

26. When any lessee of the tolls of a public ferry makes default in the payment of the rent payable in
respect of such tolls, or has been convicted of an offence under section 25, or, having been convicted
of an offence under section 23 or section 24, is again convicted of an offence under either of those
sections, the Magistrate of the district may, with the approval of the Commissioner, cancel the lease of
the tolls of such ferry, and make other arrangements for its management during the whole or any part

of the term for which the tolls were leased.

27. Every person crossing by any public ferry who refuses to pay the proper toll, and every person-
who, with intent to avoid payment of such toll, fraudulently or forcibly crosses by any such ferry without
paying the toll, or

who obstructs any toll-collector, or lessee of the tolls of any public ferry, or any of his assistants, in any
way in the execution of their duty under this Act, or

who, after being warned by any such toll-collector, lessee or assistant not to do so, goes, or takes any
animals, vehicles or other things, into any ferry boat, or upon any bridge at such a ferry, which is in
such a state or so loaded as to endanger human life or property, or

who refuses or neglects to leave, or remove any animals, vehicles or goods from any such ferry-boat or

bridge on being requested by such toll-collector, lessee or assistant to do so, or

9/13

03/09/2025

Penalty for plying
within public
ferry-course
without license

Fines payable to
lessee

Penalty for rash
navigation and
stacking of
timber

Power to arrest
without warrant

Magistrate may
assess damage
done by offender

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html

The Ferries Act, 1885

who moors any boat, raft or other substance to, or in any way obstructs, any part of a public ferry.

shall be punished with fine which may extend to fifty Taka.

28. Whoever conveys for hire any passenger, animal, vehicle or other thing in contravention of the

provisions of section 16 shall be punished with fine which may extend to fifty Taka.

29. Where the tolls of any public ferry have been leased under the provisions hereinbefore contained,
the whole or any portion of the fine realized under section 27 or section 28 may be, at the discretion of

the convicting Magistrate or Bench of Magistrates, paid to the lessee.

30. Whoever navigates, anchors, moors or fastens any vessel or raft, or stacks any timber, in a manner
so rash or negligent as to damage a public ferry, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to five hundred Taka, or with both; and the
toll-collector or lessee of the tolls of such ferry, or any of his assistants, may seize and detain such

vessel, raft or timber pending the inquiry and assessment hereinafter mentioned.

31. The police may arrest without warrant any person committing an offence against section 27 or

section 30.

32. Every Magistrate or Bench of Magistrates trying any offence under this Act may inquire into and
assess the value of the damage (if any) done or caused by the offender to the ferry concerned, and
shall order the amount of such value to be paid by him in addition to any fine imposed upon him under

this Act; and the amount so ordered to be paid shall be leviable as if it were a fine, or when the offence

10/13

03/09/2025

Power to take
possession of
boats and other
appliances on
surrender or
cancellation of
lease

Similar power in
cases of
emergency

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html

The Ferries Act, 1885

is one under section 30 by the sale of the vessel, raft or timber causing the damage, and of anything

found in or upon such vessel or raft.

The Commissioner may, on the appeal of any person deeming himself aggrieved by an order under this

section, reduce or remit the amount payable under such order.

PART IV
MISCELLANEOUS

33. On the cancelment or surrender of a lease, the Magistrate of the district may take possession of all
boats and other appliances which have been used by the lessee in the working of the ferry; and may
either retain the same permanently on payment of a fair price to the proprietor, or may retain them for
such time as may be necessary, not exceeding three months, until he can make arrangements for such
other boats and appliances as may be necessary, in which case the Magistrate of the district shall pay

a fair sum to the owners for the use of the said boats and appliances:

Provided that, within a week of taking such possession, the Magistrate of the district shall be bound to
give notice to the said lessee of his intention to retain the said boats and appliances permanently, or for

a period to be specified in the notice.

34. When any boats or their equipments, or any materials or appliances suitable for setting up a ferry,
are emergently required for facilitating the transport of officers or troops of the *[Republic] on duty, or of
any other persons on the business of the °[Republic] or of any animals, vehicles or baggage belonging
to such officers, troops or persons, or of any property of the ‘[Republic], the Magistrate of the district
may take possession of and use the same (paying such compensation for the use thereof as the

8[Government] may °[* * *] direct, until such transport is completed.

11/13

03/09/2025

The Ferries Act, 1885

Management may — 35. It shall be lawful for the Government to order that any public ferry shall be managed by a local

be vested in local
authority having jurisdiction over the area or any part of the area in which such ferry is situated; and

authority
such local authority shall have all the powers vested in the Magistrate of the district under this Act
except the powers specified in sections 7, 17 and 32, and thereupon the ferries shall be managed
accordingly.

Delegation of 36. The Government may, from time to time, delegate, under such restrictions as it thinks fit, any of the

powers

powers conferred on it by this Act to any Commissioner or Magistrate of a district, or to such other

officer or authority as it thinks fit, by name or by official designation.

1 Throughout this Act, except otherwise provided, the words “Bangladesh”, “Government” and “Taka” were substituted, for the words “East Pakistan”, “Provincial

2 The word “Bengal” was omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)

3 The word “Bengal” was omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)

1973).

” The word “Republic” was substituted, for the word “State” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of
1973).

8 The word “Government” was substituted, for the words and commas “Central Government, where the transport is in connection with the affairs of the Central

of 1973).

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html 12/13

03/09/2025 The Ferries Act, 1885

Copyright © 2019, Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Division

Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs

bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-print-54.html 13/13

